🧵 Multithreading & Synchronization
Multithreading and Synchronization are crucial for building responsive and stable Java applications, especially those that interact with slow external resources like APIs.

1. Multithreading (Concurrency)
Multithreading allows the application to execute time-consuming operations concurrently in the background, preventing the main user interface from freezing.

The Problem: Your Weather Application relies on the external Weather API, which involves slow network I/O. If this API call runs on the main Event Dispatch Thread (EDT)—the thread responsible for all GUI updates
and responsiveness—the UI will become unresponsive, appearing "frozen," until the data is returned.

The Solution: The API communication logic is offloaded to a Worker Thread (often implemented using the Thread class, Runnable interface, or higher-level executors).

The EDT initiates the request and immediately returns to handle user input and redraw the screen.

The Worker Thread performs the actual long task: establishing the connection, sending the request, waiting for the server, reading the data stream, and parsing the JSON.

Once the data is ready, the Worker Thread notifies the EDT to safely update the GUI with the results.

Implementation: Using a framework like SwingWorker simplifies this process, as it provides methods to run code in the background (doInBackground()) and safely update the GUI on the EDT (done()).

2. Synchronization (Thread Safety)
Synchronization is the mechanism used to protect shared data structures from being corrupted when accessed or modified by multiple threads simultaneously (race conditions).

The Need for Protection: In your application, while the weather data itself might be read-only once loaded, you might introduce a feature involving a shared resource, such as a local data cache (a List or Map of recently fetched weather reports).
If the Worker Thread is adding new data to the cache while the EDT is checking the cache's size, data corruption or inconsistent state can occur.

The Solution: The synchronized keyword is applied to a method or a block of code that accesses the shared resource.

public synchronized void updateSharedCache(WeatherReport data) {
    // Only one thread can enter this method at a time.
    this.cacheList.add(data);
}


How it Works: The synchronized keyword uses an intrinsic lock (monitor) associated with the object. When one thread enters a synchronized method, it acquires the lock; any other thread attempting to enter the same synchronized method
on the same object must wait until the first thread releases the lock. This ensures mutual exclusion and guarantees data integrity.
